Now in the same way that we mirrored the arm and the leg bones let's mirror these controlled object
bones.
So I just need to go through and select them all of these.
Now let me turn off the gizmo there so I can click all of these and we go and then we want to select
all of these.
So it was this one this one.
Oh I see that I didn't put a dot L at the end of this one here I'll have to be sure and do that this
one and this one.
All right.
So those are all of our control object bones that are on the left side of the character.
Those are the only ones that need to be mirrored over.
So let's now move the cursor shift s cursor to world origin and then let's say move the pivot point
to the 3d cursor.
Now what we can do is press control D and enter and then control them and hit the X key and that will
pop them over to the other side and hit enter.
Now with all of these selected let's go ahead and choose flip names right click names flip names and
we go.
Okay.
Now of course we need to go through and remove the 0 0 1 from all of these.
And let me see what happened with that foot control.
There's the foot control underscore c0.
And here's the CEO dial 0 0 1.
So that's all that data just added a 0 0 1 to it.
So I'll take this and I'll do dot R and I'll select this one and I'll put a dot l there.
Okay.
So now I've got to go through and remove all the 0 0 ones
and the last one the knee.
All right.
Well that was tedious.
I hope the version you're using takes away those 0 0 ones for you.
All right.
Now we need to parent these bones appropriately so they stay with the character and stay with the bone
they're affecting.
So this bone up here on the top we probably just need to parent this to the head bone because ultimately
what we're gonna do is have this control object before the neck bone.
If you recall we're just going to control the neck bone but when we control the neck bone the head bone
is going to come along since its parent it as well so let's parent it to the head bone or select this
shift select the head bone press control P and choose keep offset Moss are going to change this back
to median point here.
All right.
So now let's take a look at this one.
This bone here I don't think I want it to stay.
Parents to the upper arm bone.
I want it to stay parents to the spine too.
So I mean it's like this shift select spine to control P and keep offset.
And then I'm going to go through and parent these control P keep offset parent.
These and then I'm going to go through and parent each one of these here control P keep offset these
two these two and on down here as well
okay.
We've got those.
I think I better go do these while I'm here.
Control P keep offset and then each one of these like this just like the other side
this one and this one
and this and this up I better turn off the gizmos so I can click through their this and this this and
this.
Okay we've got those now let's now parent this to spine one control P keep offset this just spine one
oh excuse me that was spine to appear now this one two spine one control P keep offset and this will
parent to the root.
Here down here we should probably parent all of these bones all of these that we created to that main
foot control.
So let's take this one.
Select that one the put control control P keep offset this one and here control P keep offset and our
toe bone here select this control P and keep offset.
Okay so all of those are parents to this main foot control bone this one can be parents just to the
knee bone here troll P and keep offset and then we're gonna go to the other side and do the same thing.
So this one and foot control this one here the foot controls CEO and the main foot control control P
keep offset the toe bone and foot control and then the knee to the knee control P keep offset Okay so
there we go I think we have them all parenting the way we want them now we can begin actually setting
up the custom shapes so let's go into pose mode for that.
Let's come over here switch to pose mode now for this we can begin setting up all the shapes the first
one let's do is the neck bone Let's select that let's come over here to our bone panel and let's choose
viewport display and here we can select a custom object.
So for this I want it to be a circle.
So we'll click this and see how now the bone has been replaced by a circle I mean you click out of that
here you can see it's just now that circle that we created here on the grid that we hid away under our
control objects it's using that shape to replace the bone.
So what we want to do is place it up here on top of the head and that's why we created that bone there.
So over here custom shape transform.
We click this.
Now we find that head underscore SEO so here it is.
Head underscore.
Control object right there.
We'll click this and there it is pops up to the top of the head.
Now we can click and drag on this scale and make it as big or as small as we want.
So I think I'll just type in two.
I think that'll be just fine.
Now watch what happens when we select it and then I'll hit our two times.
And there we go.
So we're actually controlling the head from this control object but it's rotating at the neck bone right
here we go.
I'm going to press Alt are and so what we can do now is take this bone and this bone since we don't
need it and move it to a new bone layer.
Let's come over here to this panel.
The object data panel and you can see we have layers here.
So what let's do is come over to pose changed bone layers and let's move it to the second layer.
And there we go.
Now you can see them over here and here is everything else so that's the way we're going to do it.
We're going to create these custom objects clean the bones out from the rig put them over here in this
other layer.
So we'll have a nice clean setup with just the control objects and the character.
Let's do one more here.
Let's work on this one here.
So let's come over to the bone panel select our custom object.
I'm going to use a circle again.
There it is.
But it's going the wrong way.
And that's why we created this bone here.
So let's select that that was what spine one means scroll all the way down here that was spine.
No scuse me that spine to underscore SEO.
And there we go.
So now we can increase the size of that.
Maybe I'll increase it about like this.
Well let's call that.
Let's try one point for
that.
There you go in your values may be a little bit different depending on how big you created the bone.
It still seems a little too big.
Let's try one point three something like that.
Yeah OK.
So now if we select this bone here and hit are two times we can rotate that around and there you go.
Ah.
Now let's take this bone come over here.
We want to move it to this panel right.
So let's go to oppose change bone layers move it over there and there they are.
Okay let's go back to this bone panel here and let's do one more.
I'm just gonna roll this up here.
Let's do one more.
Let's do this choose our custom object.
It'll be a circle.
Choose the bone.
It'll be spine one this time right.
Spine one underscore SEO.
There it is.
And let's scale it out and let's go with one point four.
Now we better make it one point five and we go.
So this is how we're going to set up the entire character.
So we only see these control objects when they grab this bone.
Now we don't need this one and go to oppose change bone layers.
Put it on layer two.
And then it goes away.
So if I select this I can control the character like that.
All right.
So in the next video will continue on creating our custom shapes.